My name is Ryan Etheridge and you are listening to our podcast series focused around the gospel of Christ according to Matthew.
Today's date is Friday, February 27th and our scripture focus is going to be on Matthew chapter 21 verse 23 through 46.
And so in the first few verses here of our passage, verse 23 through 27, we see that Jesus' authority is
challenge.
So he's come into Jerusalem at that point.
He's come to take part of the Passover celebration, which as we know will eventually lead up to his arrest and ultimately crucifixion.
But in this moment, he's already come into the city.
They've done the whole Palm Sunday thing, Hosanna in the highest.
They've laid down the palm trees and the coats on the road as he comes in on the donkey, right?
So now he's in the temple and he's teaching and he's preaching.
And so the
leading religious leaders of the law, the Pharisees, they come and they ask him, how do you have this authority?
Right?
And so Jesus gives them two parables in response to the questions that they asked.
And the question that they posed to him was, who gave you Jesus such great authority to do all these things?
And they were referring to the teachings, the miracles and the healings, everything he had been doing up to that point.
As Jesus often does, I love this,
He first responds to their question with a question of his own when he asks them in verse 25.
Did John the Baptist's authority to baptize come from heaven or was it merely human?
Next, we read that Jesus clearly catches them in a bind with how to respond to the point that after mowing together about the question, they respond by saying, we don't know.
Jesus
always the best opportunist sees a valuable moment to capitalize on the opportunity to deliver two parables here.
Now remember, Jesus was a master storyteller and communicator, right?
Which means he always spoke appropriately to whomever his listening audience might have been.
Additionally, I always love the fact that many times Jesus gives multiple parables back to back that usually tie into one another or
speak on the same theme, but from a different perspective.
So in other words, all right, if I explained you how to do something one way and you don't quite get it, I'm going to try to explain it to you a different way and hopefully that will stick.
In today's passage, Jesus gives it to us straight in both parables.
He really does.
Earlier in his ministry in his teaching in the Gospels, Christ may have taught the parable and then left it up to interpretation a little bit or left it up to understanding by those whose
hearts and minds were prepared to read between the lines of his storytelling in order to see the deeper message and the deeper implications of his teachings.
Now, here we see Christ in Jerusalem at the peak of his ministry and active teachings, only three chapters away from his arrest.
He is not leaving anything up for interpretation or confusion, both for his disciples and his listening audience.
he wants to be blunt and clear as to who and what he is talking about and and we see that today first in the parable of the two sons and secondly in the parable of the evil farmers now these parables are referenced as much as some of the other parables are you know parable the prodigal son uh... the mustard seed you know you name it there's a bunch of other ones that are more highly referenced uh... just from a
Quantitative standpoint quantitative standpoint right here these two the parable of the two sons and the parable the evil farmers I don't I personally haven't heard them preached on that much or used in teachings or references, you know, and so The first one the parable of the two sons.
I'll just summarize it for us today, but a Man has two sons tells the older boy go out and work in the vineyard
The son said, no, I won't go, but later changes his mind.
And he does actually go anyway and does the work.
Then the father tells the other younger son, no, you go and work.
And he said, yes, sir, I will, but he never actually did.
So he just lied about it.
He just said he would do it, but he didn't do it.
He said he was going to live one way, but he was actually living a different way.
And so Jesus goes on to explain that.
And he asked the leaders who were listening, which of the two obeyed his father to which they
correctly replied, the first one, the one who said, no, I don't want to do it, I'm not going to, but then he went and did it anyways, right?
And so he goes on to explain this, listen to what Jesus says, I tell you the truth, corrupt tax collectors and prostitutes will get into the kingdom of God before you do, speaking to the Pharisees here.
For John the Baptist came and showed you the right way to live, but you didn't believe him while tax collectors and prostitutes did, and even when you saw this happening,
you refuse to believe him and repent of your sins.
Nothing to, no splitting hairs there, right from Jesus.
So very direct, straightforward in the face of the Pharisees and religious leaders of the time.
Now, I do want to read aloud the parable of the evil farmers for us before we discuss it.
So here is Matthew chapter 21, starting with verse 33,
going through the end of the chapter.
Now listen to another story.
A certain landowner planted a vineyard, built a wall around it, dug a pit for pressing out the grape juice, and built a lookout tower.
Then he leased the vineyard to tenant farmers and moved to another country.
At the time of the grape harvest, he sent his servants to collect his share of the crop.
But the farmers grabbed his servants, beat one, killed one, and stoned the other.
So the land owner sent a larger group of his servants to collect what was rightfully his, but the results were the same.
Finally, the owner sent his very own son, thinking, surely they will respect my son.
But when the tenant farmer saw his son coming, they said to one another, here comes the heir to this estate.
Come on, let's kill him and get the estate for ourselves.
So they grabbed him, dragged him out of the vineyard and murdered him.
When the owner of the vineyard returns, Jesus asked, what do you think he will do to those farmers?"
The religious leaders replied.
He will put the wicked men to a horrible death and lease the vineyard to others who will give him his share of the crop after each harvest.
Then Jesus asked them, didn't you ever read this in the scriptures?
The stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.
This is the Lord's doing, and it is wonderful to see.
I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a nation that will produce the proper fruit.
Anyone who stumbles over that stone will be broken two pieces, and it will crush anyone it falls on.
When the leading priest and Pharisees heard this parable, they realized he was telling the story against them.
They were the wicked farmers.
They wanted to arrest him,
but they were afraid of the crowds who considered Jesus to be a prophet.
Now a quick side note here, verse 42, where it talks about this is the stone that the builders rejected has now become the cornerstone.
That is a direct quote from Psalm chapter 118, verse 22, which I strongly, strongly encourage you to go back and read it in its entirety.
But while you're there, seriously, while you're there, read Psalm 119
It's a little bit long, it's poetic, but it speaks on so many great things that I think anyone can relate to.
It's like a really beautiful prayer conversation and plea from the author to God.
When you read Psalm 119, let it be a prayer from you, the reader, to God when you get the chance.
All right, now back to the point of Jesus's parable of the evil farmers.
So here we have
three different situations where the farmer sends someone to represent him for his estate.
And the parallel here is that God has sent multiple prophets, multiple signs and examples of his love for the Israelite and Jewish people.
But repeatedly we see throughout the Old Testament that the people turned away from God and either took up false idols, false religions,
or just abandoned his teachings, or perverted the teachings in one way or another completely, right?
I think about the Israelites when Moses was on the mountain, literally receiving command from God, and when he came back down, they had already abandoned what they knew and had made a false idol of that golden calf.
And so, ultimately, the farm owner here in this situation sends his son, of course,
Our representation here, the son of the farmer is the son of God.
That is Jesus, right?
And so he's saying, here I am, the Messiah and the flesh.
I've done all these examples for you.
I've done all these miracles for you.
And yet you still don't believe you are here right now in the moment.
You are seeing these miracles in real time.
People in 2020, 26 won't have this ability.
They'll have to read it and believe it through faith.
You, the religious leaders of the law who know the Old Testament,
have seen me in the flesh, the Messiah come to you, but you still are rejecting it?
What more can I do, right?
And so on that note, I think it's easy for all of us to imagine how the Pharisees were feeling after hearing this parable from Jesus and realizing that they were the real life representation of the fictional evil farmers.
They had just been called out directly and in public.
I'm certain there were some of the Pharisees, maybe the majority of them, who were simply outraged by this, and refused to use it as a moment of inward reflection, and instead use it as further fuel to the fire behind getting this Jesus guy arrested, or better yet, let's get him killed.
Then again, I'd like to imagine that there were death certainly some of the other Pharisees listening that day, who were maybe on the verge or were
sort of hearing the words of Jesus and were maybe in a situation of their heart being convicted, right?
And so I imagine there were some who did feel convicted and had to seriously take a step back to look at how they were living their lives and ask themselves if that is what they really wanted.
Were they being genuine with themselves or were they living a false life of holiness?
Maybe they were thinking
If this Jesus is truly who he says he is, and if his teachings are true and from God, then I'm only fooling myself by living in the delusion that as long as I look holy to the outside world, as long as I check all these boxes, then I've got it all figured out.
To us listening or studying Jesus' words today, we should not just gloss over this parable, or think of it as something that
doesn't pertain to us specifically because, well, we aren't Pharisees, we aren't ancient Jewish teachers of the law, we aren't Jewish, right?
It's easy to put ourselves in the camp of Jesus and his disciples and to not side with the Pharisees in these moments because we often view them as the bad guys of the Gospels, right?
And though that may be largely true to a point, the thing that I want us to be aware of is that it's maybe easier than we think for each of us
to slip into a similar way of thinking or a similar way of living like the Pharisees.
Will we condemn Christ to the cross if he showed up right here in 2026?
Certainly not.
But how often are we too quick to assume someone or some other group as maybe guilty or sinful or not right with God before
taking the time to learn the full details or before getting to know the full person.
Would we mock Christ or spit in his face either literally or figuratively?
Of course not.
But how often are we too quick to mock or slander or speak down on someone or a whole group of people because they have different lifestyles than us, different political opinions, or maybe they've experienced life in the love of God differently than us?
I think it is important for us to realize over time if we aren't careful we can shift from clearly being in Jesus's camp into maybe either by accident or without noticing it being more in line with the camp of the religious leaders and Pharisees that Jesus was often butting up against during his ministry.
And this happens when we start to put our own agenda or church agenda
ahead of what God's true agenda and goal is, right?
That's why we need people with different spiritual gifts to be a part of the body of Christ so that we can check each other during along the way, lean into each other's strengths and weaknesses and to make sure that we are functioning as one cohesive church body but made up of many different high functioning individual parts.
We slide into this other camp of thinking
when we make a choice to act on or implement policies fueled from our own personal opinions before taking the step to bounce what we want off of scripture and first asking, is this really God's will or is this just my will?
Does this serve the whole church's purpose or does it mainly just serve my purpose?
Typically I like to leave any
message teaching or podcast off on a positive note, maybe even like a call to action in some way.
But I think for today's context, it is most helpful for all of us listening, myself included, to end with a general warning that can be gleaned from Christ's teachings that we see here in Matthew chapter 21.
The first thing is don't fall into the trap of thinking that you've got it all figured out like the Pharisees did.
Be careful to make sure that your heart and mind stays rooted in God's true scripture.
It's easy for us over time if we don't come back and study it to forget those words of scripture or to twist scripture in our mind to work for our agenda or what our goals are or what our desires are in our life.
The second thing, remember, none of us are perfect
There is always deeper to grow and learn in our relationship with Christ and how we can then impact the people and places around us out of being in relation with Christ.
Lastly, seek the counsel and guidance of the Holy Spirit daily.
Seek it daily and make sure that you are being honest with yourself as to what your true character is.
I hope this podcast reading has been a blessing to you as it has been to me.
And remember, be grateful today and every day for all of us have something to be thankful for.
Thank you for listening to this podcast focused around the book of Matthew, produced by the marvelous Kinney Stewart from the beautiful Perdido Bay Methodist Church.
We hope you have a great day.